Argentina goes to the ballot box to choose new lawmakers on Sunday in a vote that could determine President Alberto Fernández's ability to govern effectively for the remaining two years of his term, one marked so far by economic hardship worsened by the coronavirus pandemic. The mandatory vote for nearly half the lower house Chamber of Deputies and a third of the Senate follows on from the PASO primaries back in September, in which Fernández's ruling centre-left Frente de Todos coalition took a battering. In shock results, the Peronist front garnered only about a third of votes cast compared to 37 percent for the centre-right opposition group, Juntos por el Cambio, the coalition led by former president Mauricio Macri. The September vote to pick candidates for Sunday's elections revealed deep-seated disillusionment with the government and the president, who said afterwards that "we must have done something not right." The outcome unleashed a political crisis pitting Fernández against his powerful vice-president and coalition partner, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, who pressured her boss into a Cabinet reshuffle in the hopes it would help appease an increasingly-frustrated electorate. Frente de Todos has 120 of 257 seats in the Chamber of Deputies, with 124 up for grabs on Sunday. The ruling coalition holds a majority of 41 out of 72 seats in the upper house, which it will be eager to maintain, although analysts believe this is unlikely. "If the results of the PASO [September's primary] are repeated, the ruling party could lose its majority in the Senate," said political analyst Rosendo Fraga of the Nueva Mayoría think-tank. "Not only would it not achieve a majority... but also lose seats." "It is possible for the government to improve this election, but not substantially," said Fraga. In the opinion of this analyst, "the central political problem will be, whatever the result, the division in the ruling party between the president and the vice-president. This dispute will continue and may even worsen.”  Discontent Critically, the opposition made great strides in September in Buenos Aires Province, the country's largest electoral district and considered a bastion of Peronist support. Fernández took power from Macri in 2019. But public discontent with his government has been growing: Argentina has been in recession since 2018 and registered a drop in GDP of 9.9 percent last year amid the coronavirus pandemic. The country has one of the world's highest inflation rates, running at 40 percent so far this year, and a poverty rate of 42 percent for a population of 45 million. Last month, the government announced a deal with the private sector to freeze prices on more than 1,400 basic goods, following street protests demanding greater food subsidies. It has also increased the minimum wage and family allowances. The defeat in September’s primaries was "a punishment for Alberto Fernández's administration," said political scientist Carlos Fara, who described it as a consequence of "the economic impact that was generated between what he inherited [from the previous government] and what was produced by the pandemic."  No ‘unbeatable’ centres Argentina is seeking to renegotiate a US$57-billion loan from the International Monetary Fund of which it has received US$44 billion that it is having a tough time repaying. Sunday's vote will serve as a bellwether for the next presidential election in 2023, but also threatens to tie Fernández's hands for the next two years. If the opposition makes gains and obtains legislative blocking power, "it will most probably use it," said analyst Gabriel Puricelli of the University of Buenos Aires. A defeat for the government could “put a brake on Kirchnerism in both chambers” and compel the ruling coalition to negotiate and make concessions if it wants to pass laws or make key appointments, including to the Judiciary, said Fara. Mario Riorda, a political scientist and academic with the Universidad Austral, said the Frente de Todos has lost 19 electoral points countrywide since 2019" and that the Peronist coalition no longer has unbeatable centres" of power left in the country. In terms of support, he added, the opposition "has practically not moved from its last national figure." The second half of Fernández's term will take place "in a very complex balance of internal tensions that could jeopardise governability," he warned. "The composition of the Congress that emerges from these elections will determine the conditions of governability" until 2023, when Fernández's term ends, said Puricelli. But they are also "a test of the viability of the two main coalitions as a vehicle for the next presidential elections," he added.