Under the framework of the election and on his stops on the campaign trail, Alberto Fernández speaks of meetings with owners of small and medium-sized businesses and some announcements of private investment. He is more reserved in private meetings with business leaders, many of whom are very concerned about Argentina’s current situation and, above all, what might happen to economic, financial and social variables on Monday, November 15, when the post-election period begins. One of these dinners, but not the only recent one of late, took place last Tuesday night (November 9) at the Olivos residence. Together with Economy Minister Martín Guzmán, the president received a select group of executives from important companies to exchange views on what is to come, PERFIL managed to confirm via several sources. The dinner lasted about four hours and lasted into the early hours of the following morning. The meal began with bruschettas, followed by lomo con rosti, and a marathon serving session of coffee and tea, according to one diner. An intense back and forth of opinions and ideas with Fernández and Guzmán followed. Antonio Aracre (Syngenta), Sergio Kaufman (Accenture) and Daniel Herrero (Toyota), were among the guests present. Given the climate, the executives once again raised the need for all political, economic and social forces to agree on some urgent points that would allow them to speed up, for example, an agreement with the International Monetary Fund, while protecting the most vulnerable sectors of society and establishing a path of fiscal discipline. Fernández and Guzmán, in unison, responded to those present with their own official menu of commitments: There will be no default and an arrangement with the IMF, without implying austerity, will be made in January or February. There will be no devaluation jump. We will make a 10-point agreement between employers and trade unions and send it to Congress so that politicians can decide what they want to do with it. We want a path of fiscal convergence. Unnecessary subsidies need to be eliminated. We will boost new jobs, promote careers with job opportunities (knowledge sciences, agribusiness) and create an environment for more investment. We will step up the fight against tax evasion. Starting Monday, the day after the elections, we will see how capable the Frente de Todos coalition government is of making this menu a reality, in some cases with essential agreements with opposition sectors – or whether it is just another letter of good intentions, with unpalatable dishes that satisfy almost nobody.