Reacting to initial results of midterm legislative elections in Argentina, former president Mauricio Macri said Sunday that voters have declared “the end of one era and the beginning of another.” Speaking to the LN+ news channel, the former president (2015-2019) said that it was time for the nation to prepare for a “transition” of power in two years’ time. “The result confirms that it is the end of one era and the beginning of another. It is a beginning that requires a transition. There are still two years left of their government, in which it seems that they are not going to have," he said, referring to the ruling Frente de Todos coalition. "For this transition to happen in an orderly manner, we have to be responsible, serious and constructive, as we have always been. We have to try and help minimise the damage, because people are still having a very bad time today," he added. "The truth is that we are all suffering. We are having a bad time because of the government's failure, the absence of the state to control insecurity, to provide during the pandemic, in the development of the economy and employment.” Macri, who lost the 2019 presidential election to Alberto Fernández, said it is time to focus “on the birth of a new stage for Argentina.” “"We must not repeat our mistakes. The Argentina that is coming is an Argentina of good sense. There are people that have matured and this result confirms it. "What this result shows is that there is growth. All this pain has brought growth. And we have to channel it into what is going to get us out of here is both the maturity of the people and the maturity of a group of leaders," he added. Looking back on his government, Macri admitted: "I've lived through all of this. These grey hairs were brought to me by the problems we suffered in 2015. And I understand that these problems have been aggravated by the terrible government we have had during the last two years.” On a possible solution to those problems, he remarked: "Getting out of it will require a lot of awareness, a lot of humility, a lot of analysis. We have to abandon improvisation – it is a process that begins while another ends." – TIMES/NA/PERFIL