In an unprecedented broadside. Argentina’s Ambassador to Chile Rafael Bielsa on Monday branded Chilean far-right presidential hopeful José Antonio Kast “ant-Argentine” and “xenophobic.” The comments, delivered less than 24 hours after Kast finished first in Chile’s presidential election with 27.8 percent of the vote, were swiftly condemned by governments on in both Buenos Aires and Santiago. Kast, an apologist and supporter of late Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet, now faces a second-round run-off on December 19 against left-wing candidate Gabriel Boric. Speaking in an interview with El Destape radio, Bielsa condemned the presidential hopeful’s “aggressive” attitude towards Argentina and compared Kast’s rhetoric and views to those of former US president Donald Trump and Brazilian leader Jair Bolsonaro. He said he feared the worst should Kast win the election. "If one takes public statements as an element of judgement, Kast has exhibited his anti-Argentinism," said the envoy, citing “telling us that we have historically stolen territories, that we have to stop stealing territories from Chile, to all kinds of xenophobic expressions against Argentines, which I have filed, registered, read and studied." "Kast's discourse is very generic and imprecise, but it is not a right-wing comparable to [current Chilean President Sebastián] Piñera's, it is a right-wing [thought] that is not afraid to say its name". "Kast's is a rupturist, from the Pinochet right that does not speak of human rights, nor of the disappearance of people, nor of torture, nor of state responsibilities," Bielsa, a former foriegn minister, told Radio Con Vos in a separate interview. Referencing the election result directly, the ambassador said that the out who came second in the first round has never won the vote." "The sum for the run-off is simple. The official [government] candidate [Sebastián] Sichel got 11 percent, plus 28 percent for Kast and 12 percent for [Franco] Parisi. There is not much doubt," said Bielsa. Reacting to the remarks, which are a break with normal conventions for diplomats in office,  the government in Argentina briefed reporters that they were delivered in a “personal capacity” and did not reflect the position of President Alberto Fernández. In a statement, Chile’s government said it “rejected” the “inappropriate” comments. "These expressions represent an unacceptable interference in Chile's internal affairs and violate the norms of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations," it read. "The Government of Chile reiterates its permanent disposition to maintain the best political and diplomatic relations with the Republic of Argentina, within the framework of the historic friendship that unites us and the reciprocal respect that our peoples deserve," the communiqué concluded.  – TIMES/NA