A technical mission team with officials from Argentina's Economy Ministry and Central Bank will travel to Washington on Saturday to meet with representatives from the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Argentina is seeking to make progress in negotiations to refinance a debt of US$44 billion, the government confirmed Thursday. "They are meetings that will be held in the framework of a negotiation, to continue working in the search for an agreement, which is what we all hope will happen soon," Presidential Spokeswoman Gabriela Cerruti said Thursday at her weekly press conference when asked about the mission. The Argentine delegation will be received by "a team of IMF officials led by Julie Kozack and Luis Cubeddu in Washington DC starting this weekend to deepen technical discussions towards an IMF-supported programme," a spokesperson for the IMF said in a statement. Argentina is seeking to replace the three-year stand-by agreement for US$57 billion granted in 2018 to the government of former president Mauricio Macri (2015-19), of which US$44 billion has been disbursed. Officials are seeking a Extended Fund Facility programme that would allow repayment deadlines to be postponed and lengthened. The current agreement obliges the repayment of maturities in 2022 and 2023 worth more than US$19billion each year, with another US$5 billion due in 2024. President Alberto Fernández's government says it intends to make a US$1.8-billion payment on 18 December. This year, Argentina has already made payments totalling US$1.34 billion in interest and about US$1.9 billion on the principal.  – TIMES/AFP The new Argentine mission to the Fund "is eminently technical, so no contacts with the press are expected", a source from the Ministry of Economy told AFP, confirming that neither the minister Martín Guzmán nor the president of the BCRA, Miguel Angel Pesce, will be part of the delegation. According to the Ámbito Financiero newspaper, the teamhnhr;iyprp3pkt'o will be headed by Sergio Chodos, the representative of Argentina and the Southern Cone on the IMF board.